Hello, hello hello, and welcome to English Learning for Curious
Minds, by Leonardo English.
The show where you can listen to
fascinating stories, and learn weird
and wonderful things about the world at
the same time as improving your English.
I'm Alastair Budge, and today
we are going to be talking about
AI, Artificial Intelligence.
This is partially a follow-up episode to
the one last week, where we talked about
Artificial Intelligence and language
learning, but it is also a follow-up
episode to a blog article and a video
that you can find on leonardoenglish.com.
In today’s episode, we are going to
talk about how AI did when I gave it a
very specific task, the task of writing
a podcast, and we’ll ask ourselves
how this technology might impact the
world not just of podcasting, but
the world of creation more generally.
Let’s get right into it.
Now, as you may remember from the last
episode, a company called OpenAI released
a chatbot powered by AI, where you can
type almost anything into the chat, and
you receive back a human-like response.
You can ask it to respond to an
email, you can ask it to tell you
about a period of history, explain a
scientific concept, give you a recipe,
almost anything you could ask a human
being, you can ask this chatbot.
So, I thought, well, I wonder if it can
write a podcast episode, I wonder how
it will do if I ask it to write a script
for English Learning for Curious Minds.
Currently, as you may know or you can
probably imagine, there are many hours of
research, writing, editing and rewriting
that go into writing a script for this
podcast, and the process typically
involves multiple talented people.
It’s a lot of work, so I was very
curious, somewhat scared even, if
all of this could simply be replaced
by an AI, replaced by a robot.
If an AI could do as well, if not
better than me and the Leonardo English
team, well that would be quite scary.
So, how did it do?
I actually recorded the entire process
of me doing this, so if you haven’t seen
this already, you can watch it if you
like, it’s over on the Leonardo English
blog, and you can find a link below.
It was a pretty amazing experience,
and I’d certainly recommend checking
it out if you haven’t done so already.
Anyway, long story short, I told
the AI a little bit about English
Learning for Curious Minds, about
who listens to the podcast, and I
gave it some examples of topics.
Then, I asked it to suggest some new ones.
I have to say, the results, the
topic suggestions, were pretty good.
It suggested an article on spying, the
history of cars, and it even suggested
a couple that we have done already
- the mysterious world of cryptids
and one on the science of dreams.
Anyway, one title particularly stood
out to me: "The History of the Circus:
From Ancient Rome to the Modern Day"
Interesting, I thought.
OK, let’s see if the AI can
actually write a script.
Now, I first asked it to create
an outline for me, a plan of what
it would cover in the episode.
It did a really good job, following
a structure that I might have chosen
had I been writing the episode.
I did need to give it quite specific
instructions, quite detailed instructions,
but the results were encouraging.
But, that was the easy bit.
How would it manage when it actually
had to write in perfectly correct
English, using a varied vocabulary,
using interesting words and phrases,
repeating harder words, and writing
a script that would be spoken out
loud, not simply a blog article or
something that would sound unnatural?
And how would it manage to fill
the script with a mixture of
interesting facts and trivia,
combined with a compelling narrative?
Ultimately, would it tell a good story?
On this count, again it
did surprisingly well.
It wrote each section individually,
I was able to give it feedback after
each one, asking it to make some small
changes, and the results were encouraging.
There were some factual inconsistencies,
some things that weren’t quite right or
seemed a little strange, but overall it
followed instructions well, and it did
a better job than lots of humans would.
I say this, actually, because I have
seen the work of many, many human
scriptwriters, researchers and writers
who have applied to Leonardo English
to help me write episodes, and this AI
was a better writer than lots of them.
We’ll move onto the consequences of
this, the impact of this, in a minute.
So, the finished product.
This AI chatbot, this AI robot, did
manage to write an entire script for an
episode on the history of the circus.
The script was quite good
overall, I’d give it 6/10 perhaps.
If you’d like to see it for yourself, you
can read the finished script on the blog.
I'll put a link in the notes, but you
can find it at leonardoenglish.com/blog.
It was a pretty amazing experience
to see this robot, this artificial
intelligence, in action, and for me
it was a kind of life-changing moment
to see how human-like this AI was.
Now, what does this all mean?
Firstly, if you are worried that
episodes of English Learning for
Curious Minds are going to be written by
robots, by AI in the future, fear not.
That’s not going to happen.
At the moment, this AI isn’t capable
of original thought, it can’t really
provide opinions or data like that.
It can analyse lots of information and
provide conclusions and summaries, it
has access to the archives of history
and knows fascinating stories, but it
isn’t a particularly great storyteller.
Yet, at least.
So, don’t worry, our episodes
will continue to be written by
humans, nothing is changing there.
But, let me use this example, the
example of English Learning for Curious
Minds, to ask you to take part in
an interesting thought experiment.
How would it change your opinion about a
podcast, a journalist, a writer, if you
found out that their writing wasn’t their
writing, it was the writing of an AI?
Let’s say you had been reading someone’s
books, or listening to a podcast for
years, really enjoying it, and then
you found out that it had actually
been written by AI, by a computer?
If you didn’t know that it was until
you were told, how would that change
your experience, how would that
change the way it made you feel?
Feel free to press pause
for a minute and think.
It’s a really important question,
because the line between what is created
by humans and what is created by AI
is going to be more and more blurred.
Ultimately, does it matter who,
or what, created something?
Yes, you probably think, it does.
If you listen to a heart-breaking story
of young romance and you are led to
believe that  this is true, then you
find out it was all invented by an AI,
I imagine that you would feel tricked,
you’d feel duped, you would feel misled.
But if you never found out that it
had been written by an AI, those
feelings you felt were true, they
were real, does it really matter
if the entire story was fictional
and created by a smart technology?
Let me give you another example,
one that might sound more basic.
Most of the products we use, from
the clothes we wear to the cars we
drive to the food we eat is made in a
great part by technology, by robots.
If it was made exclusively by humans,
without the intervention of robots, it
would be substantially more expensive.
Let’s take the example of clothes.
Pure handmade clothes are expensive.
Mass-produced clothes, made in large part
via automated machines, can be very cheap.
Most people around the world choose
mass-produced clothes, because they
are a utility, people don’t care
about how they were made, they only
care about the finished product.
Sure, you can choose to shop in a more
ethical way, to make sure that the people
involved in the process of creating
your clothes are treated well and paid
fairly, but ultimately you care about
the final product, not the process.
In some cases, for example with cars,
I imagine many people would probably
prefer the idea of a robot making the
car rather than it being “handmade”.
So, why can’t an AI write a
play, paint a picture, or dare
I even say it, make a podcast?
Maybe you’re thinking, well,
I guess they can then, but let
me give you my point of view.
At the moment at least, we still care
about the process of creation, and
the more creative the process is,
the more we care about the process.
For example, if you visit a small village
and go to a small workshop where a
family has been making chocolate, let’s
say, for 100 years, and you can see the
intricate process of lovingly crafting
this chocolate, you are probably more
willing to buy it, and pay more for
it, than you would if you went to the
supermarket and bought a mass-produced
chocolate bar from the shelf.
It’s because you care about the process
of creation, you have a connection
with the human beings you’ve seen going
through the process of creation, a much
bigger connection than you have with a
multinational company that makes hundreds
of millions of chocolate bars every week.
So, let’s bring this back to AI,
and the title of this episode,
“Can A Robot Write A Podcast?”
Yes, ultimately, a robot can
write a podcast episode, it can
do a pretty good job, in fact.
I’m sure that there will be plenty of
podcasters, writers, journalists, who
will use AI tools like this to write
parts or the entirety of their work.
In fact, we’ve seen this already.
An early but less sophisticated version
of this tool, this AI, was released in
2020, and there was a flood of products
built that allowed entire blog articles
to be written based of different prompts.
You could tell the AI to “write a blog
article about the best sandwich shops
in London” or the “top 10 activities
for young families in Paris”, and the AI
would write out a basic article on the
subject that sounded almost like a human.
The purpose of this was purely to create
content for websites, so that they would
get more people to them and make more
money, there was pretty much no care
given to the quality of the content.
And this is why you might have seen
so much low-quality content if you
searched Google over the past few
years - all the AI was doing was
rehashing, reformatting existing
content, it wasn’t creating anything new.
And this is one of the big
criticisms, or at least limitations
of the current version of AI.
It's very capable of analysing
existing information and providing
summaries, but it isn’t yet capable
of creating anything new or original.
With the example of the “best sandwich
shops in London” or “top 10 activities for
young families in Paris”, it has no way
of going to a new sandwich shop, tasting
their sandwich and reviewing it, or taking
a young family to an attraction in Paris
and writing its own opinion about it.
All it does is it takes the information
that currently exists and gives
it to you in a different format.
So, at least right now,
there are limitations to what
Artificial Intelligence can do.
But it is, to use the cliche,
a game changer, it is going to
fundamentally change society, and the
world of work, for almost everyone.
When robots started to replace humans
in factories, people like journalists,
lawyers and writers no doubt felt
some sorrow about this, but felt
that their jobs were perfectly safe.
After all, a robot could never
completely replace them, right?
But it’s clear that, at least on the
lower end, the more mass-produced
and unoriginal end, yes they can.
We’ve seen this already with
generic blog content, but it
has even spread to newspapers.
Many news articles about things like
lower league sporting fixtures or company
reports are completely written by AI,
because people don’t really care about who
wrote it, they just want the information
about what happened, they want the detail,
the facts, the figures, who scored, did
a company make or lose money, and so on.
And an AI is perfectly capable of
creating this kind of content, indeed,
most people don’t know they are
actually reading AI-written content.
As of yet, opinions, analysis and original
thought has remained the preserve of human
beings, there isn’t a robot columnist or
a best-selling AI non-fictional author.
And, there aren’t yet, as far as
I’m aware, any real podcasts written
and presented exclusively by AI.
And this podcast isn’t going to become
the first, so please do not worry
about this; this is not a coded message
from me informing you that a robot
has taken over control of Leonardo
English, and that from now on, an
AI will be writing every episode.
But, an interesting thought that I want to
leave you with today is, what if it had?
OK then, that is it for today's
episode on AI, and specifically,
whether an AI can write a podcast.
If you haven’t done so already, I would
recommend you check out the episode before
this, on AI and language learning, and
you read the blog article where I wrote
about my experience trying to get an AI
to write an episode, and you can read the
full script with what it came up with.
I think it’s absolutely fascinating
to think about how this technology
is going to change the world, and I’d
love to know what you think as well.
What impact will AI have
on you, and your job?
Do you think a robot could ever
replace you at work, and if so, how?
If not, are you so sure about it?
I would love to know, so let’s
get this discussion started.
You can head right into our
community forum, which is at
community.leonardoenglish.com and get
chatting away to other curious minds.
You've been listening to English Learning
for Curious Minds, by Leonardo English.
I'm Alastair Budge, I’m not a robot,
and I'll catch you in the next episode.